OK in this lecture we want to talk about dependency injection and this a very very core concept of the
spring framework.
Now you might not be familiar with dependency injection but here's a great quote I got a chuckle out
of this one dependency injection for five year olds is when you go and get things out of the refrigerator
yourself.
You can cause problems you might leave the door open you might get something mommy and daddy doesn't
want you to have.
You might even be looking for something we don't have or which is expired.
What you should be doing is stating a need I need something to drink with lunch and then we'll make
sure that you have something when you sit down to eat.
So I do get a chuckle out of this because it is pretty accurate a description for a five year old now
Dependency Injection is where a needed dependency is injected by another object. The class that is being
injected has no responsibility and instantiating the object that is being injected.
Some will say that you should avoid declaring objects by using the new keyword.
And some people get pretty militant on that.
I've seen people go overboard with that. Not 100 percent correct.
If you need something small and minor.
Yes yes you do want to avoid that.
A good example going back to our five year old example is like a database connection.
So if you needed a database connection and your hard wiring that database connection inside your class
think about what you're doing.
You're going out and you might be hard coding the database credentials the name of the server and so
on.
And what if you forget to close a connection or something like that.
Now you're you're causing problems.
So it also could make your code very un maintainable because what we want to use a different database
or moved to a different database server so your class that's being run really has no interest in in
the database and where the database is located the user credentials and all that.
That is a dependency that can easily be injected so that that's a great example of dependency injection.
Another example was you might want to send a message and put a message on a queue.
Now you don't care if you're using ActiveMQ or RabbitMQ you just want to send a message.
So that's another great use case for dependency injection just to see for you doesn't start in versioning
why it's such a powerful tool to make your code higher quality more versatile and easier to maintain.
Now there's a couple of different types of dependency injection. You can do it right by class properties.
If you had a public property you can easily do dependency injection. Just set the property and inside
a Spring you can actually dependency inject against private properties and you can see there I've bolded
evil using private properties as absolutely evil. It's highly frowned upon.
I see it and use way too much.
And basically you're creating a class and you are Spring use of reflection to get around this for
you but you've created a class to instantiate that class and get your code run somehow that dependent
object needs get created and it can't be done without having to go around the walls to using the reflection.
So if you think about it I have this class now it basically said no you can't unit test night class
absolutely impossible.
That lesson you're gonna jump through a bunch of hoops to go ahead and use reflection to inject that
but otherwise you can't unit test that class and that's exactly what happens when you run dependency
injection against private property because you could just make your class completely impossible to test.
Now the next thing that we have is by Setters. and this is an area of much debate I used to prefer Setter
based dependency injection and this is an old memory.
This goes back to like Spring to 5 ish maybe 3 constructor injection used to be a little bit buggy but
that's a really no longer an issue.
Setters is not the most preferred and there's a lot of debate in the community because the pure object
oriented type people are going to prefer By Constructor and that as my preferred method is to do dependency
injection by constructor and the thought being there as you can't instantiate the class without the
dependencies.
So it's definitely a preferred type of dependency injection.
Now the next thing we need to talk about is the use of concrete classes versus interfaces. Now dependency
injection can be done with either you can either use a concrete class or an interface.
Generally I like to say this is a generalization to avoid dependency injection with concrete classes
because what you're doing is when you do this you're saying I must have the specific type of class so
going back to the database example if I was looking for a database connection I'm gonna use a data source
interface.
Allow any data source to get injected.
I'm not going to use these specific implementation provided by MySQL.
Now if I did that now I've hard wired my class to MySQL and I wouldn't be able to use another
database without that without modifying my class to a different type.
So Dependency Injection view view interfaces is highly preferred and what this does is it allows the
runtime to decide the implementation to inject. So any class that implements that interface can be interjected
into your class and if you remember we started off with the solid principles of object oriented design.
This follows nicely the interface segregation principle of SOLID.
And another point of using interfaces is going to make your code a lot more testable because now you
can run, you can write your own mocks, you can use Mockito of when you're running unit tests and do true
unit test against your class by providing a mocked interface.
Now if you're to run against a concrete type you could easily get in trouble there because maybe if
you were going across MySQL implementation of data service guess what to test that class you're gonna
have to inject MySQL edit type in there and have a MySQL database running. So going
against an interface is much easier and very very much preferred. Now the next thing when you talk about
is inversion of control it's also known as IOC.
Now this is a technique to allow the dependencies to be injected at runtime. The dependencies are not
predetermined.
So I can easily write code.
It could structure my code for dependency injection and the right of wrapper class around it to hard
wire those dependencies in. That would be technically legal.
The concept of inversion control is that you're going to have some type of framework that's going to
determine at runtime what dependencies to inject.
Now this is a great quote from Ralph Johnson and Brian Foote. One important characteristics of a framework
is that the methods defined by the user to tailor the framework will often be called from within the
framework itself rather than from the user's application code.
The framework often plays the role of the main program coordinate in sequencing application activity.
This inversion of control gives frameworks the power to serve as extensible skeletons.
The methods supplied by the user tailor generic algorithms defined and the framework for a particular
application.
And this is really exactly what spring framework does.
Take a moment to reread this.
This is really what makes spring framework so powerful. You saw previously when we set up that Spring
Boot application how easy it was to instantiate Spring MVC so we were using Spring MVC and Spring Boot
to create that runtime environment and it gave us all that framework code around our stuff but we focused
on the business logic so we only wrote the business logic and we leveraged the framework.
And this is really is what makes spring frameworks so powerful. Now a lot of people get dependency injection
and inversion control confused that they kind of get the concepts but not quite.
And what you need to realize is that dependency injection is going to refer mainly to the composition
of your classes so you can compose your application with dependency injection in mind.
So you know that you're going to have these things injected at runtime so Dependency Injection is more
of how you design your code.
While inversion control is the runtime environment. So this is your code running in an application when
it starts up.
This is how things are gonna get injected into your code and the spring framework inversion control
container is an excellent example of this.
So at runtime spring is gonna come up, it's gonna find your classes, and it's going to perform dependency
injection
depending on how you've configured Spring. Previously we saw a lot of Spring Boot that does a lot of
automatic configuration for us making sensible defaults which we totally leverage there.
When we started off the course. Spring was able to come up make these sensible defaults through Spring
Boot and run our application at runtime.
So this is a very very powerful concept.